Nightworld 1284198457

"And Johnny and Gene lived happily ever after."
     Noa smiled, it was time for a grilled cheese. She usually had a
snack after finishing one of her willy wonka fan fiction stories.
     "DEANNA, get out here!!" Tom was yelling and banging at the front
door. Noa moaned, got up, and told him to fuck off. "Deanna doesn't live
here anymore, dude."
     "Then where's my freaking xbox?"
     "I don't know Tom, but wherever it is I hope it's happy."
     Noa slammed the door and Tom kept banging.
     Deanna was playing Madden on mute in the living room. She winked
at Noa as Noa collapsed in the wooden circular pillow chair they had
picked up two months ago at Goodwill.
   "Tom is weird these days. We should stop hanging out with him."
Deanna said and glanced back at Noa from the screen. Noa agreed but
didn't say anything. Once Tom was probably on his way back home, Noa
scurried down to the first floor and buzzed herself out of the
apartment complex's front door.
   It was a dark, breezy and wet afternoon. Noa darted through the
groups of people, making her way to Medieval Marketplace, which didn't
make her favorite grilled cheese in the area, but it wasn't her least
favorite either. On the crosswalk on 106th st she thought of a funny
idea. She began to make up a rhyme about Tom, with the intention of
making it a saga. Something she could laugh about with Deanna,
something that would either impress or intimidate Tom, and something
that would surprise herself. She only wrote about people she knew in
her fan fiction. Tom might be Augustus Gloop, or Gene Wilder
pretending to be Willy Wonka, and Deanna could be Tim Burton,
orchestrating the entire flawed remake starring Johnny Depp (Noa
herself). But to give the characters in her life their own stories on
paper, there seemed to be so many ways it could go wrong. She couldn't
help herself, and started putting the pieces together in her head.

     "Beautiful Tom, my observation is,
     your lock won't hole my key.
     We let you be you
     now let me be me.

     Cause Tom when he was growing up
     my intuition seems to see,
     his mom would bake him fishy sticks
     his dad would more than sip his eau de vie

     Through consistency and consequence
     Tom learned to read
     His teacher had him write a book
     Tom would rather pee

     Sooner or later Tom found someone
     and lost him in the alley
     around the time the leaves were changing
     Tom said goodbye to all his playthings

     Now here you are with your swatch of black
     your chest hairs that d likes to play with
     with your monocled nipple and silver chrome kicks
     you're the spitting image of year 2246

     The way you toss back whiskywine
     and looking up you smirk
     what I see in your eyes boy
     is better than what D finds in her mom's purse

     And Tom I hope you realize
     that your tapestry will never die
     Nope, cause I won't let it.
     Will Deanna defile it? She can try.

     You are how I see my world,
     From the A train to the Z.
     If there was a T train I'd ride the O train
     then the M train (M stands for Me!)

     Through Tom we've learned new colors
     that is, Deanna and me.
     We've learned new slang: It's freakin great!
     Tom's the bomb, you'll see

     Cause Tom
     you'll play again, we'll win again
     don't bother your ex, let's look past her.

     Why is our age obsessed with somewhere else?
     somewhere lame and stupid?
     Our unassuming little universe
     and a New Yorkian predilection for ketchup-cheese

     I've watched you through the neurotic looking-glass
     of my own mind
     as you bleep through our spacetime continuum
     your favorite fonts tattooed on your inner thighs

     Tom, I could go on
     but I'll spare you and me
     I'll meet you somewhere else this time,
     you can teach me to smoke weed.

     Each verse felt borne of intuition, a long-lost subfield of
creativity she had been reading about. What's lost was almost never
found, but Deanna set her up with a project called JITsearch, a dusty
old application from the old days of the WIB, just 50 years after
the world-wide-web imploded into the modern World's Interdisciplinary
Betabase. JITsearch was at the time a controversial digital filing
cabinet that generated new contents on the fly. In this way it became
known in a class of programs called "history emulators", which were a
timesink and source of endless entertainment for generations. There
were comedic histories, histories with attitude and/or an agenda,
histories harvested specifically to push buttons. And with each of
these mechanically generated archives came a new fragment of reality,
a new take on the multiverse, new happenings, or unhappenings,
depending on whether or not you subscribed to the shining star of the
21st century's theories on the unary nature of the fading lines
between existence and non-existence, from Credit Suisse's Ontology
department. Doton all but erased the differences between space and
time, life and death, between you and me. Through Doton's monolithic
view of the multiverse, humanity was given a glimpse into their past
and future at the same time, but more importantly it became generally
accepted as fact that consciousness was endlessly more collective than
once theorized, and something does not need to happen just in order to
have happened. It was this melding of fact and fiction that caused
various now-normal new developments around the city: the invisible
maze beneath Tompkins Square Park, the silver highway, a subway system
500 feet below the first one, and NYU's School of Willy Wonkan
studies, a complete and intercontextual center dedicated to studying
the forms, theories, and myths surrounding its namesake.
      Noa arrived at Medieval Market, picking up a cup of
complimentary coffee on her way in. She was used to the nutmeg smell
of the place, the scrapes her boots made on the scattered dirt
floor. In the back at the sandwich counter between two chainmailed
mannequins, she told Roy she'll have the Classic C sandwich. "Sure
thing boss," Roy smiled. Noa had her mind on the radio, it was Neil
Piersall or Diana Douglas singing:

         She's on fire
         and when I admire
         eclipses my desire

         Can't deny her
         whatever signs decide her
         She's on fire
         eclipses my desire
         eclipses my desire

     Noa loved Classic Cheese sandwiches. She looked past the counter
over to what some would describe as another dreary day on
Broadway. Strollers, parked cars, white-haired people who didn't need
to work.
     Noa knew she was lucky. Everyone on and off the wib bowed down to
her takes on creative fan-fiction. Most of her money came from
"one-offs" where she would write a story and sell it to someone else to
submit as their own. She'd given keynotes at WiWoFaFiCon, usually
ending with moving gestures like, "and Willy Wonka fandom has seen
wilder and more brilliant places than Roald Dahl had ever
imagined. Together we will all keep pushing the boundaries. I'm
certain it's going to be a good year." These speeches, however
inspiring to those in the scene, left Noa feeling sore and
drab. Why can't we make, mix, or mash? Noa smiled over her tomato
soup. Her mind was demented enough to make it happen.
    Noa returned home at 110th st and Deanna was still on the couch.
    "Dude check out my score" Deanna pointed to the screen.
    "100 to 1? That's cool but I don't even know how to play Mexican
football."
    "No I mean, the font," Deanna clarified.
    "Is that one of Tom's fonts?"
    "The one he bought in Great Neck last December. It's called
Seligman. He just put it up on his Betaspace and says it's from 1962
but no one believes him."
    "He can be such a weirdo," Noa said.
    Deanna elaborated, "I'd bet my blonde ass he's never seen a font
older than 1984. I know about the 80s. That's when fonts became
the real deal. If Tom was such a badass he'd be collecting stamps
instead of fonts anyways."
    Noa didn't ask. What's the difference. When her neuroses flares
up, i.e. when Deanna talks about Tom, Noa forgets to breathe in,
forgets what matters and what's important to her.
    "Are you doing anything tonight?" Noa asked.  Deanna didn't know
how to say no, so she said, "Uhh probably gonna go to some wib
developer thing."
    There's nothing better than holing yourself up on top of the
attic's skylight on a sunny day with clouds going by that disappear
into blueness (in other words, sky). Noa's Nokia buzzed. "Whatcha doin
tonight?" The thrill of the unknown. What's this unknown number doing
on my phone? I hope it's not my own creeping denial that I'm abnormal,
or stuck in a limitless chest of time like my recent nightmares keep
suggesting. No, it's Tom, contacting me from a new number like he
always does. I wanna meet up with him.
    Sour garbage wakes up my senses going seeing people, some of them
even older than me, walking around with walkers. I go downtown and
across a bridge. It was my idea, not Tom's, to meet up at
JSGFLEKFLG:O.  I don't care if it's yuppie. This place makes me feel
what I need to feel when I need to feel it: comforted, the fact that
people smile at you, is that all it takes to get people to like you?
What's humanly possible in social norms has changed over my last five
years. Why is a spliff in my hand when it's not time to smoke yet?
Tom's face.. something about him, his solid smirk deepened into a
drunken one. I love not drinking around him.
   "This place, eh. Listen. You need to fight for what you want.
Let's go to Tropekál it's more fun."
   I felt what you feel after winning a game you don't want to win.
Tom's given me goosebumps since I've known him, but I don't like
not drinking around him anymore. I want to somewhere else.. somewhere
more fun. I want to go to Tropekál without him.
   "K. I'm down. That sounds fun."
   Walking down the chilly sidewalk we saw the glowing neon: pink and
green lettering in the distance. Inside, the palm trees' leaves moved
with light -- centipedes swam through the branches and plastic
trunks. The walls were overwhelming, spotted with pink and black
tiger skin to the top of the side of the roofless building, and the
digital skylight mocked the night sky in Utah at 4am, with points of
light scattered through the entire rectangle of the shotgun-shack
Brooklyn bar.
   I forgot Tom was with me, and started eyeing my prospects. There
was a nice spot in the corner with good wi-fi. I downloaded their API
last time I was here and made a program to connect their jukebox with
chopped up versions of old Vybz Kartel songs from the 2010s.